---
id: 04f8dace-91e4-4c6a-8bdd-7ccb48e954f0
blueprint: dc_blog_post
title: 'Path Reactions and Response.'
---
The outrage over this Path  address book upload issue is interesting. It's a good discussion to have but in my mind there are other privacy issues we should be way more worried about.

But I didn't write this post to talk about that issue. I found <a href="http://mclov.in/2012/02/08/path-uploads-your-entire-address-book-to-their-servers.html">the response from Path</a> to be quite interesting:
<blockquote>We believe that this type of friend finding &amp; matching is important to the industry and that it is important that users clearly understand it, so we proactively rolled out an opt-in for this on our Android client a few weeks ago and are rolling out the opt-in for this in 2.0.6 of our iOS Client, pending App Store approval.</blockquote>
&nbsp;

First of all they added the opt-out feature to Android *first*. That's odd, given that their app was iOS-only for the longest time. Their user base also *must* be  larger there. Is the Android team just more on the ball than the iOS? I doubt that, given they haven't added the notification control that the iOS version has. Maybe the iOS team was busy working on a bigger 'yet-to-be-released' feature. Or are Android users more sensitive to privacy? Definitely a sign that Android has become an equal contender to iOS at least in terms of development  Maybe I'm reading way too much into this, but it does raise a lot of questions.

Second is the 'pending AppStore approval.'  There *has* to be a better way for development shops like Path, especially with small code-base updates and especially for things of this nature.  The developers at Path aren't going to add in code that sends costly SMS message to Nigerian short codes. This doesn't *quite* fall under the 'expedited emergency security hole' approval process Apple has but there really needs to be a middle ground. A middle ground for companies that produce one of the top 5 social media apps currently in use.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;